= phidgets4r

This Github project is a fork of the http://phidgets.rubyforge.org project.  Cheers to Craig DeHaan for the good start.

Currently only the following Phidgets are supported (looking for peeps with more hardware to test)

* InterfaceKit
* Servo
* RFID (untested I think)

== DESCRIPTION:

Phidgets are a set of "plug and play" building blocks for low cost USB sensing and control from your PC.
This gem provides a ruby interface to the phidgets library (using the Ruby DL layer).

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* This gem uses DL to call the c functions in the Phidgets shared library, so the library must be installed and working.
* The gem has been tested to work on MacOS X, Linux and Windows.
* Only a few devices have been implemented, and not all of the devices that have been fully implemented or fully tested.
* The callback functionality of the Phidgets library is not working very well. Making multiple calls to the phidgets library from
  within a callback will cause an exception.
* The gem will attempt to guess the name of the phidgets library based on the platform it is run on (Linux or Windows). If it guesses
  incorrectly, the library name can be set manually with Phidgets::setLibName(lib)

== SYNOPSIS:

```ruby
require 'phidgets'

begin
  ik = Phidgets::InterfaceKit.new(-1,2000)

  puts "Device Name     = #{ik.getDeviceName}"
  puts "Serial Number   = #{ik.getSerialNumber}"
  puts "Device Version  = #{ik.getDeviceVersion}"

  ik.close

rescue Phidgets::Exception => e
  puts "Phidgets Error (#{e.code}). #{e}"

end
```

== REQUIREMENTS:

* The Phidgets library (http://www.phidgets.com/)

== BUILD:

* rake gem

== INSTALL:

* gem install phidgets

== LICENSE:

Copyright (C) 2009  Craig DeHaan

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
